Getting and Using FEC Electronic Filings

1) Go to “Campaign Finance Reports and Data” at fec.gov and click on “Electronic Filings”
2) Fill in information about your request – for example, a specific committee name or a group of committees in a state.
3) Click “format documentation for downloads” from the top of the screen. This contains instructions and column headers for the different types of data contained in filings.
4) Review the list of committees and filings.  Watch for the notation that a specific report has been amended by another.  Also watch for coverage dates for reports to be sure you are retrieving all the information you’re looking for.
5) Click on “Download” to receive the data from the filing and save the file (using a .txt extention). If you open the file using wordpad or something similar, you’ll see that it is comma delimited.  The file contains records with several different formats basically corresponding to information provided on old paper reports.  For example, there is a record with summary information for the time period, followed by specific receipt and disbursement records.  The type of record, and the line number from the form to which the transaction refers is the first piece of information in each row.  For example, “SA11A1” means Schedule A (receipts) for Line 11a1 which is a contribution from an individual.
6) Set up a file in the application you want to use (examples here will be in excel), and define the column headings using e-filingheaders.xls from the format download.  You can create separate sheets in excel, for example, for the summary information, receipts, disbursements, and any other record types included in the filing.  Simply copy and paste the column headings from e-filingheaders and then delete the first column before you begin copying data.
7) Copy and paste data into excel or other applications – this is one way to keep similar data together from a filing.  For example, you might select all records that begin with SA and paste them into a spreadsheet for receipts, then do the same thing for records beginning SB and put them in a sheet for disbursements.  After you’ve pasted the data, use “text to columns” from the Data menu in excel to separate the columns correctly. A wizard will ask you whether the data is delimited or undelimited.  Choose delimited and click “next”.  Then click the box labeled “comma” and click next twice and the data will appear correctly in columns.
